Where the space map levels connect is randomized every round, but are otherwise kept consistent within rounds. Remember that they are not necessarily bidirectional!
You can catch thrown items by toggling on your throw mode with an empty hand active.
To crack the safe in the vault, use a stethoscope or explosives on it.
You can climb onto a table by dragging yourself onto one. This takes time and drops the items in your hands on the table. Clicking on a table that someone else is climbing onto will knock them down.
You can drag other players onto yourself to open the strip menu, letting you remove their equipment or force them to wear something. Note that exosuits or helmets will block your access to the clothing beneath them, and that certain items take longer to strip or put on than others.
Clicking on a windoor rather then bumping into it will keep it open, you can click it again to close it.
You can spray a fire extinguisher, throw items or fire a gun while floating through space to change your direction. Simply fire opposite to where you want to go.
You can change the control scheme by pressing tab. One is WASD, the other is the arrow keys. Keep in mind that hotkeys are also changed with this.
All vending machines can be hacked to obtain some contraband items from them, and many can be fed with coins to gain access to premium items.
Firesuits and winter coats offer mild protection from the cold, allowing you to spend longer periods of time near breaches and space than if wearing nothing at all.
Glass shards can be welded to make glass, and metal rods can be welded to make metal. Ores can be welded too, but this takes a lot of fuel.
If you need to drag multiple people either to safety or to space, bring a locker or crate over and stuff them all in before hauling them off.
You can grab someone by clicking on them with the grab intent, then upgrade the grab by clicking on them once more. An aggressive grab will momentarily stun someone, allow you to place Mekhi on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
Holding alt and left clicking a tile will allow you to see its contents in the top right window pane, which is much faster than right clicking.
The resist button will allow you to resist out of handcuffs, being buckled to a chair or bed, out of locked lockers and more. Whenever you're stuck, try resisting!
You can move an item out of the way by dragging it and then clicking on an adjacent tile with an empty hand.
You can recolor certain items like jumpsuits and gloves in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.
Maintenance is full of equipment that is randomized every round. Look around and see if anything is worth using.
Some roles cannot be antagonists by default, but antag selection is decided first. For instance, you can set Security Officer to High without affecting your chances of becoming an antag -- the game will just select a different role.
There are many places around the station to hide contraband. A few for starters: linen boxes, toilet cisterns, body bags. Experiment to find more!
On all maps, you can use a machine in the vault to deposit space cash for cargo points. Otherwise, use it to steal the station's cash and get out before the alarm goes off.
As the Captain, always take the nuclear disk and pinpointer with you every shift. It's a good idea to give one of these to another head you can trust with keeping it safe, such as the Head of Security.
As the Captain, you have absolute access and control over the station, but this does not mean that being a horrible person won't result in mutiny and a ban.
As the Captain, you have a fancy pen that can be used as a holdout dagger or even as a scalpel in surgery!
As the Captain, you can purchase a new emergency shuttle using a communications console. Some require credits, while others give you credits in exchange. Keep in mind that purchasing dangerous shuttles will incur the ire of your crew.
As the Chief Medical Officer, your hypospray is like a refillable instant injection syringe that can hold 30 units as opposed to the standard 15.
As the Chief Medical Officer, coordinate and communicate with your doctors, chemists, and geneticists during a nuclear emergency, blob infestation, or some other crisis to keep people alive and fighting.
As a Medical Doctor, pester Research for improved surgical tools. They work faster, don't cost much and are typically more deadly.
As a Medical Doctor, your belt can hold a full set of surgical tools. Using sterilizine before each attempt during surgery will reduce your failure chance on tricky steps or when using less-than-optimal equipment.
As a Medical Doctor, you can attempt to drain blood from a husk with a syringe to determine the cause. If you can extract blood, it was caused by extreme temperatures or lasers, if there is no blood to extract, you have confirmed the presence of changelings.
As a Medical Doctor, while both heal toxin damage, the difference between charcoal and antitoxin is that charcoal will actively remove all other reagents from one's body, while antitoxin only removes various toxins - but can overdose.
As a Medical Doctor, you can surgically implant or extract things from people's chests. This can range from putting in a bomb to pulling out an alien larva.
As a Medical Doctor, you must target the correct limb and be on help intent when trying to perform surgery on someone. Using disarm attempt will intentionally fail the surgery step.
As a Medical Doctor, corpses with the "...and their soul has departed" description no longer have a ghost attached to them and aren't usually revivable or cloneable. However it may prove useful to be creative in your revivification techniques with these bodies.
As a Medical Doctor, treating plasmamen is not impossible! Salbutamol stops them from suffocating and showers stop them from burning alive. You can even perform surgery on them by doing the procedure on a roller bed under a shower.
As a Medical Doctor, you can point your penlight at people to create a medical hologram. This lets them know that you're coming to treat them.
As a Medical Doctor, you can extract implants by holding an empty implant case in your offhand while performing the extraction step.
As a Medical Doctor, clone scanning people will implant them with a health tracker that displays their vitals in the clone records. Useful to check on crew members that didn't activate suit sensors!
As a Chemist, there are dozens of chemicals that can heal, and even more that can cause harm. Experiment!
As a Chemist, some chemicals can only be synthesized by heating up the contents in the chemical heater.
As a Chemist, you will be expected to supply crew with certain chemicals. For example, clonexadone and mannitol for the cryo tubes, unstable mutagen and saltpetre for botany as well as healing pills and patches for the front desk.
As a Chemist, you can make 100u bottles from plastic sheets. The ChemMaster can produce infinite 30u glass bottles as well.
As a Geneticist, you can eject someone from cloning early by clicking on the cloner pod with your ID. Note that they will suffer more genetic damage and may lose vital organs from this.
As the Virologist, your viruses can range from healing powers so great that you can heal out of critical status, or diseases so dangerous they can kill the entire crew with airborne spontaneous combustion. Experiment!
As the Virologist, you only require small amounts of vaccine to heal a sick patient. Work with the Chemist to distribute your cures more efficiently.
As the Research Director, you can take AIs out of their cores by loading them into an intelliCard, and then from there into an AI system integrity restorer computer to revive and/or repair them.
As the Research Director, you can lock down cyborgs instead of blowing them up. Then you can have their laws reset or if that doesn't work, safely dismantled.
As the Research Director, you can upgrade your modular console with better computer parts to speed up its functions. This can be useful when using the AI system integrity restorer.
As the Research Director, your console's GATOnet monitoring tool can be used to retrieve airlock passkeys, provided that someone used a door remote.
As a Scientist, you can use the mutation toxin obtained from green slimes to turn yourself into a jelly mutant. Each subspecies has unique features - for example telepathic powers, duplicating bodies or integrating slime extracts!
As a Scientist, you can maximize the number of uses you get out of a slime by feeding it slime steroid, created from purple slimes, while alive. You can then apply extract enhancer, created from cerulean slimes, on each extract.
As a Scientist, you can disable anomalies by scanning them with an analyzer, then send a signal on the frequency it gives you with a remote signalling device. This will leave behind an anomaly core, which can be used to construct a Phazon mech, or be used in the destructive analyzer for a 10,000 point bonus!
As a Scientist, researchable stock parts can seriously improve the efficiency and speed of machines around the station. In some cases, it can even unlock new functions.
As a Scientist, you can generate research points by letting the tachyon-doppler array record increasingly large explosions.
As a Scientist, getting drunk just enough will speed up research. Skol!
As a Scientist, you can get points by placing slime cores into the deconstructive analyzer! This even works with crossbred slime cores. 
As a Roboticist, keep an ear out for anomaly announcements. If you get your hands on an anomaly core, you can build a Phazon mech!
As a Roboticist, you can repair your cyborgs with a welding tool. If they have taken burn damage from lasers, you can remove their battery, expose the wiring with a screwdriver and replace their wires with a cable coil.
As a Roboticist, you can reset a cyborg's module by cutting and mending the reset wire with a wire cutter.
As a Roboticist, you can greatly help out Shaft Miners by building a Firefighter APLU equipped with a hydraulic clamp and plasma cutter. The mech is ash storm proof and can even walk across lava!
As a Roboticist, you can augment people with cyborg limbs. Augmented limbs can easily be repaired with cables and welders.
As a Roboticist, you can use your printer that is linked to the ore silo to teleport mats into your work place!
As the AI, you can click on people's names to look at them. This only works if there are cameras that can see them.
As the AI, you can quickly open and close doors by holding shift while clicking them, bolt them when holding ctrl, and even shock them while holding alt.
As the AI, you can take pictures with your camera and upload them to newscasters.
As a Cyborg, choose your module carefully, as only cutting and mending your reset wire will let you repick it. If possible, refrain from choosing a module until a situation that requires one occurs.
As a Cyborg, you are immune to most forms of stunning, and excel at almost everything far better than humans. However, flashes can easily stunlock you and you cannot do any precision work as you lack hands.
As a Cyborg, you are impervious to fires and heat. If you are rogue, you can release plasma fires everywhere and walk through them without a care in the world!
As a Cyborg, you are extremely vulnerable to EMPs as EMPs both stun you and damage you. The ion rifle in the armory or a traitor with an EMP kit can kill you in seconds.
As a Service Cyborg, your spray can knocks people down. However, it is blocked by gas masks.
As an Engineering Cyborg, you can attach air alarm/fire alarm/APC frames to walls by placing them on the floor and using a screwdriver on them.
As a Medical Cyborg, you can fully perform surgery and even augment people. Best of all, they have a 0% failure chance.
As a Janitor Cyborg, you are the bane of all slaughter demons and even Bubblegum himself. Cleaning up blood stains will severely gimp them.
As a Janitor Cyborg, you get a fancy bottle of drying agent! If you want to be nice, spray the janitor boots with them to magically upgrade them to absorbent galoshes.
As the Chief Engineer, you can rename areas or create entirely new ones using your station blueprints.
As the Chief Engineer, your hardsuit is significantly better than everybody else's. It has the best features of both engineering and atmospherics hardsuits - boasting nigh-invulnerability to radiation and all atmospheric conditions.
As the Chief Engineer, you can spy on and even forge PDA communications with the message monitor console! The key is in your office.
As the Chief Engineer, your locker contains a jetpack upgrade that can be attached to hardsuits.
As the Chief Engineer, the power flow control console in your office will show you APC infos and lets you control them remotely. 
As an Engineer, the supermatter shard is an extremely dangerous piece of equipment: touching it will disintegrate you.
As an Engineer, you can electrify grilles by placing wire "nodes" beneath them: the big seemingly unconnected bulges from a half completed wiring job.
As an Engineer, return to Engineering once in a while to check on the engine and SMES cells. It's always a good idea to make sure containment isn't compromised.
As an Engineer, you can power the station solely with the solar arrays. While uninteresting, it is a much safer alternative to regular engines.
As an Engineer, you can cool the supermatter crystal by spraying it with a fire extinguisher. Only for the brave!
As an Engineer, you can repair windows by using a welding tool on them while on any intent other than harm.
As an Engineer, you can lock APCs, fire alarms, emitters and radiation collectors using your ID card to prevent others from disabling them.
As an Engineer, you can convert tesla coils into corona analyzers by using a screwdriver on the circuit board. They will produce less power, but generate research points!
As an Engineer, you can use radiation collectors to generate research points. Load them with a 50/50 oxygen/tritium tank and use a multitool to switch them to research mode.
As an Engineer, don't underestimate the humble P.A.C.M.A.N. generators. With upgraded parts, a couple units working in tandem are sufficient to take over for an exploded engine or shattered solars.
As an Engineer, your departmental protolathe and circuit printer can manufacture the necessary circuit boards and components to build just about anything. Make extra medical machinery everywhere! Build a gibber for security! Set up an array of emitters pointing down the hall! The possibilities are endless!
As an Engineer, you can pry open secure storage by disabling the engine room APC's main breaker. This is obviously a bad idea if the engine is running.
Don't forget that Cargo has access to a meteor defense satellite that can be ordered BEFORE meteors hit the station. Any idle Engineers should have this on their to-do list.
As an Engineer, your RCD can be reloaded with mineral sheets instead of just compressed matter cartridges.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can unwrench a pipe regardless of the pressures of the gases inside, but if they're too high they can burst out and injure you!
As an Atmospheric Technician, look into replacing your gas pumps with volumetric gas pumps, as those move air in flat numerical amounts, rather than percentages which leave trace gases.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you are better suited to fighting fires than anyone else. As such, you have access to better firesuits, backpack firefighter tanks, and a completely heat and fire proof rigsuit.
As an Atmospheric Technician, your backpack firefighter tank can launch resin. This resin will extinguish fires and replace any gases with a safe, room-temperature airmix.
As an Atmospheric Technician, your ATMOS holofan projector blocks gases while allowing objects to pass through. With it, you can quickly contain gas spills, fires and hull breaches. Or, use it to seal a plasmaman cloning room.
As an Atmospheric Technician, burning a plasma/oxygen mix inside the incinerator will not only produce power, but also gases such as tritium and water vapor.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can change the layer of a pipe by clicking with it on a wrenched pipe or other atmos component of the desired layer.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can take a few cans worth of N2/N2O and cool it down at local freezers. This is a good idea when dealing with (or preparing for) a supermatter meltdown. 
As the Head of Security, you can call for executions or forced cyborgization, but may require the Captain's approval.
As the Head of Security, don't let the power go to your head. You may have high access, great equipment, and a miniature army at your side, but being a terrible person without a good reason is grounds for banning.
As the Warden, your duty is to be the watchdog of the brig and handler of prisoners when little is happening, and to hand out equipment and weapons to the security officers when a crisis strikes.
As the Warden, keep a close eye on the armory at all times, as it is a favored strike point of nuclear operatives and cocky traitors.
As the Warden, if a prisoner's crimes are heinous enough you can put them in permabrig or the gulag. Make sure to check on them once in a while!
As the Warden, never underestimate the power of tech slugs! Scattershot fires a cone of weaker lasers, Ion slugs fires EMPs that only effect the tiles they hit, and Pulse slugs fire a singular laser that can one-hit almost any wall!
As the Warden, you can use a surgical saw on riot shotguns to shorten the barrel, making them able to fit in your backpack.
As the Warden, you can implant criminals you suspect might re-offend with devices that will track their location and allow you to remotely inject them with disabling chemicals. 
As the Warden, you can use handcuffs on orange prisoner shoes to turn them into cuffed shoes, forcing prisoners to walk and potentially thwarting an escape.
As the Warden, tracker implants can be used on sec officers. Doing this will let you track their corpse even without suits, though the implant will biodegrade after 5 minutes.
As the Warden, cryostasis shotgun darts hold 10u of chemicals that will not react untill it hits someone.
As the Warden, chemical implants can be loaded with a cocktail of healing or combat chems, perfect for the Hos or other sec officers to use. Be sure to keep a eye on them though, it will not auto inject! EMPs or starvation mite lead to the chemical implant to go off as well.
As the Warden, tracker implants can be used on sec officers. Doing this will let you be able to message them when telecoms are out, or when you suspect coms are compromised. This is also good against rogue AIs as the prisoner tracker doesn't leave logs or alarms for the AI.
As a Security Officer, remember that correlation does not equal causation. Someone may have just been at the wrong place at the wrong time!
As a Security Officer, remember that your belt can hold more then one stun baton. 
As a Security Officer, remember that you can attach a sec-lite to your taser or your helmet!
As a Security Officer, communicate and coordinate with your fellow officers using the security channel (:s) to avoid confusion.
As a Security Officer, your sechuds or HUDsunglasses can not only see crewmates' job assignments and criminal status, but also if they are mindshield implanted. Use this to your advantage in a revolution to definitively tell who is on your side!As a Security Officer, examining someone while wearing sechuds or HUDsunglasses will let you set their arrest level, which will cause Beepsky and other security bots to chase after them.
As a Security Officer, you can take out the power cell on your baton to replace it with a better or fully charged one. Just use a screwdriver on your baton to remove the old cell
As a Security Officer, you can place riot shotguns on your armor, this even works with winter sec coats!
As the Detective, people leave fingerprints everywhere and on everything. With the exception of white latex, gloves will hide them. All is not lost, however, as gloves leave fibers specific to their kind such as black or nitrile, pointing to a general department.
As the Detective, you can use your forensics scanner from a distance.
As the Detective, your revolver can be loaded with .357 ammunition obtained from a hacked autolathe. Firing it has a decent chance to blow up your revolver.
As the Lawyer, try to negotiate with the Warden if sentences seem too high for the crime.
As the Lawyer, you can try to convince the captain and Head of Security to hold trials for prisoners in the courtroom.
As the Head of Personnel, you are not higher ranking than other heads of staff, even though you are expected to take the Captain's place first should he go missing. If the situation seems too rough for you, consider allowing another head to become temporary Captain.
As the Head of Personnel, you are just as large a target as the Captain because of the potential power your ID and computer can hand out.
As the Mime, your invisible wall power blocks people as well as projectiles. You can use it in a pinch to delay your pursuer.
As the Mime, you can use :r and :l to speak through your ventriloquist dummy.
As the Mime, your oath of silence is your source of power. Breaking it robs you of your powers and of your honor.
As the Clown, if you lose your banana peel, you can still slip people with your PDA! Honk!
As the Clown, eating bananas heals you slightly. Honk!
As the Clown, your Holy Grail is the mineral bananium, which can be given to the Roboticist to build you a fun and robust mech beloved by everyone.
As the Clown, you can use your stamp on a sheet of cardboard as the first step of making a honkbot. Fun for the whole crew!
As the Chaplain, your null rod has a lot of functions: it can convert water into holy water, which if spread on the ground prevents wizards from jaunting away, can destroy cultist runes by hitting them, and is a very powerful weapon to boot!
The Chaplain can bless any container with water by hitting it with their bible. Holy water has a myriad of uses against both cults and large amounts of it are a great contributor to success against them.
As the Chaplain, your bible is also a container that can store small items. Depending on your god, your starting bible may come with a surprise!
As the Chaplain, you are much more likely to get a response by praying to the gods than most people. To boost your chances, make altars with colorful crayon runes, lit candles, and wire art.
As a Botanist, you can hack the MegaSeed Vendor to get access to more exotic seeds. These seeds can alternatively be ordered from cargo.
As a Botanist, you can mutate the plants growing in your hydroponics trays with unstable mutagen or, as an alternative, crude radioactives from chemistry to get special variations.
As a Botanist, you should look into increasing the potency of your plants. This increases the size, amount of chemicals, points gained from grinding them in the biogenerator, and lets people know you are a proficient botanist.
As a Botanist, you can combine production trait chemicals just like a Chemist. Chlorine (blumpkin) + radium and phosphorus (glowshrooms) equals unstable mutagen!
As a Cook, you can load your food into snack vending machines.
As a Cook, you can rename your custom made food with a pen.
As a Cook, any food you make will be much healthier than the junk food found in vendors. Having the crew routinely eating from you will provide minor buffs.
As a Cook, being in the kitchen will make you remember the basics of Close Quarters Cooking. It is highly effective at removing Assistants from your workplace.
As a Cook, your Kitchenmate can vend out trays that fit on your belt slot. These trays pick up 7 food items at a time and are a quick way to transport large meals.
As a Cook, the advanced roasting stick is used to cook food at a distance, and can be used on SME, singularity, and other objects that cook food normally.
As the Bartender, the drinks you start with only give you the basics. If you want more advanced mixtures, look into working with chemistry, hydroponics, or even mining for things to grind up and throw in!
As the Bartender, you can use a circular saw on your shotgun to make it easier to store.
As a Janitor, if someone steals your janicart, you can instead use your space cleaner spray, grenades, water sprayer, exact bloody revenge or order another from Cargo.
As a Janitor, the trash bag can be used to hold more than trash. Tools, medical equipment, smuggled nuclear disks... You name it!
As a Janitor, mousetraps can be used to create bombs or booby-trap containers.
Beware the Curator, for they are not completely defenseless. The curator's whip always disarms people, their laser pointer can blind humans and cyborgs, and can hide items in wirecut books.
As the Curator, be sure to keep the shelves stocked and the library clean for crew.
As a Cargo Technician, you can hack MULEbots to make them faster, run over people in their way, and even let you ride them!
As a Cargo Technician, you can order contraband items from the supply shuttle console by de-constructing it and using a multitool on the circuit board, the re-assembling it.
As a Cargo Technician, you can earn more cargo points by shipping back crates from maintenance, liquid containers, plasma sheets, rare seeds from hydroponics, and more!
As a Cargo Technician, you get 400 points per packet! Stamp the manifest and sending back the crate will give you 200 points for the paperwork and 200 points for the crate!
As a Cargo Technician, paperwork is an alternative option to shipping off plasma sheets and other goods. Order Paperwork crates and go into the crafting menu to turn pens and undone paper work into completed grant paper work to get 50 points per sheet!
As the Quartermaster, be sure to check the manifests on crates you receive to make sure all the info is correct. If there's a mistake, stamp the manifest DENIED and send it back in a crate with the items untouched for a refund!
As the Quartermaster, you can construct an express supply console that instantly delivers crates by drop pod. The impact will cause a small explosion as well.
As a Shaft Miner, the northern side of Lavaland has a lot more rare minerals than on the south.
As a Shaft Miner, every monster on Lavaland has a pattern you can exploit to minimize damage from the encounters.
As a Shaft Miner, you can harvest goliath plates from goliaths and upgrade your explorer's suit, mining hardsuits as well as Firefighter APLUs with them, greatly reducing incoming melee damage.
As a Shaft Miner, always have a GPS on you, so a fellow miner or cyborg can come to save you if you die.
As a Shaft Miner, you can craft a variety of equipment from the local fauna. Bone axes, lava boats and ash drake armour are just a few of them!
You can swap floor tiles by holding a crowbar in one hand and a stack of tiles in the other.
When hacking doors, cutting and mending the "test light wire" will restore power to the door.
When crafting most items, you can either manually combine parts or use the crafting menu.
Suit storage units not only remove blood and dirt from clothing, but also radiation!
Remote devices will work when used through cameras. For example: Bluespace RPEDs and door remotes.
Laser pointers can be upgraded by replacing its micro laser with a better one from RnD! Use a screwdriver on it to remove the old laser. Upgrading the laser pointer gives you better odds of stunning a cyborg, and even blinding people with sunglasses.
The nuclear reactor blew up and now there's plutonium everywhere? Shovels and radsuits will do the trick. Just... Make sure to decontaminate or get rid of that gear afterwards.
Wondering how to obtain Fatorays? You can uncover the hidden tech-node in the research console using Destructive Analyzer and raygun scraps, which are usually found in maints or as ruin loot.
Make sure to coordinate your RPs with your partner by using either LOOC chat or DMing them on Discord! Communication is key to good RP!
Remember to keep an eye out for shuttle call votes!
If you need to temporarily leave the round, find a safe spot to sleep in or go to Dormitories to rest.
